late 2021, the inspiration came from
Peter was about to watch a movie with
his with his girlfriend. She didn't
speak English, so they turned it up in
Polish. And that kind of brought us back
to something we grew up with where every
po every every movie you watch in
Polish, um, every foreign movie watched
in Polish has all the voices. So whether
it's male voice or female voice, um,
still narrated with one single
character, like monotonous narration.
It's like a horrible experience and it
still happens today. And I was like,
"Wow." Um, we think this will change.
[Music]
Greetings. Today we're talking with
Mattie Stenosvski from 11 Labs about how
they've carved out a defensible position
in AI audio. Even as the big foundation
model labs expand into voice as part of
their push to multimodality,
we dig into the technical differences
between building voice AI versus text.
It turns out they're surprisingly
different in terms of the data and the
architectures.
Matty walks us through how 11 Labs has
stayed competitive by focusing narrowly
on audio, including some of the specific
engineering hurdles they've had to
overcome, and what enterprise customers
actually care about beyond the
benchmarks.
We also explore the future of voice as
an interface,
the challenges of building AI agents
that can handle real conversations, and
AI's potential to break language
barriers. Matty shares his thoughts on
building a company in Europe and why he
thinks we might hit human level voice
interaction sooner than expected. We
hope you enjoy the show.
Mati, welcome to the show. Thank you for
having me. All right, first question.
There was a school of thought a few
years ago when 11 Labs really started
ripping that you guys are going to be
roadkill for the foundation models and
yet here you are still doing pretty
well. What happened? like how how were
you able to stave off the multimodality,
you know, big foundation model labs and
kind of carve out this really
interesting position for yourselves?
It's uh, you know, exciting last few
years and it's definitely true. We still
need to keep keep on our toes to be able
to keep winning the fight of foundation
models. But I think the the usual and
definitely true advice is is staying
focused and staying focused in our case
on audio both as a company of course the
do research and the product but we
ultimately stayed focused on the audio
uh which really helped but the you know
probably the biggest question uh under
that question is is
through the years we've been able to
build some of the best research models
and and out compete the the big labs and
here you know credit to to to to my
co-founder who I think is a genius pot
who has been able to both do some of the
first innovations in the space and then
assemble a rockstar team that we have
today at the company that is continually
pushing what's possible in audio and
it's like you know when we started uh
there was very little research done in
audio most people focused on LMS some
focus on image you know a lot more uh
easy to see the results uh frequently
more exciting for people doing research
to work in those fields so there's a lot
less focus put onto audio and the the
set of innovations that happened in the
years prior, the diffusion models, the
transformer models weren't really
applied to that domain in a in an
efficient way. Um, and we've been able
to to bring that in in those first years
where for the first time the texttospech
models were able to understand the
context of the text and deliver that
that that audio experience in a just
such a better tonality and emotion. And
so that was the starting point that
really differentiated our work to to
other works which was the the true
research innovation. But then fast
following after that first first piece
was uh was building all the product
around it to be able to actually use
that research. It's uh as you you know
we've we've seen so many times it's like
it's not only the model that matters. It
also matters how you deliver that
experience to the user. Yeah. And in our
case, whether it's narrating and
creating audio books, whether it's
voiceovers, whether it's turning movies
to other languages, whether it's adding
text to speech and in the agents or
building the entire conversational
experience. Um, that layer keeps keeps
helping us to to win across across the
foundational models and hyperscalers.
Okay, there's a lot here and we're going
to come back and dig in on a bunch of
aspects of that, but you mentioned your
co-founder Peter. I believe you guys met
in high school in Poland. Is that right?
Can you kind of tell us the origin story
of how you two got to know each other
and then maybe the origin story of how
this business came together? The uh I'm
in the I'm probably in the luckiest
position ever. We met with 15 years ago
in high school. Um the the we uh we
started an IB uh class in in in Poland
in Warso and uh took all the same
classes. So so kind of everything and we
hit it off pretty quickly on some of the
mathematics classes. We both love
mathematics. So we uh we started both uh
sitting together uh spending a lot of
time together and that kind of morphed
from outside the school uh um time
together as well. And then over the
years we we kind of did it all from from
living together, studying together,
working together, uh traveling together
and and now 15 years in we are still
best friends. Uh you know with the time
is on our side which is helpful. Has
building a company together strengthened
the relationship or has There were ups
and downs for sure but but I think it
did. I think it did. I think it's it's
uh it's battle tested it. Definitely
battle tested it and it was like you
know when when uh the company started
taking off. We um
it's hard to know how long the horizon
of this intense work will will happen.
Initially it was like okay this is the
next four weeks. we just need to push,
trust each other that we'll do well on
on different aspects and and just
continue pushing. Um, and then there was
another four weeks, another four weeks,
and then we realized like actually this
going to be in the next 10 years, and
there was just no real time for anything
else. We were just like just do 11 laps
and and nothing else. And over time, and
I think this happened organically, but
looking back at it, it definitely
helped. uh we we now try to still stay
in close touch in what's happening in
our personal lives uh where we are in
the world um and um and spend some time
together um still speaking about work
but outside of the work context and I
think this was very healthy for um for
now I know for so long and I kind of
seen him evolve personally through those
years but I kind of still stay in close
touch to to that as well. It's important
to make sure that your co-founder and
your executives and your team are able
to bring their best self to work and not
just completely ignoring everything
that's happened on the personal front.
Exactly. Yeah. And then to your second
question, you know, part of the
inspiration for for 11 laps came so so
maybe the longer story. So there are two
parts. First through the years um when
he was at Google, I was a palunteer. We
would do hack weekend projects together.
Okay. So like trying to explore new
technology for fun and that was
everything from um building
recommendation algorithms. So we tried
to build this uh model where you would
be presented with a few different things
and if you select one of those the next
set of things you're presented with gets
closer and optimizes closer to your
previous selection. Deployed it had a
lot of fun. Then we did the same uh with
with crypto. We try to understand the
risk in crypto and build like a risk
analyzer for crypto. Very hard didn't
fully work but but but but it was good
attempt in the first uh one of the first
crypto heights uh uh to to try to
provide like the analytics around it.
And then we created a project in audio.
So we created a project which analyze
how we speak and gave you tips on how to
when was this? Early 2021. Okay. Early
2021. Um that was kind of the first
opening. This is what's possible across
audio space. This is the
state-of-the-art. These are the models
that do theization understanding of
speech. This is where the speech
generation looks like. And then late
2021, the inspiration came from and like
the the more of the aha moment from from
Poland, from where you're from, where uh
in this case, Peter was about to watch a
movie with his with his girlfriend. She
didn't speak English, so they turned it
up in Polish. And that kind of brought
us back to something we grew up with
where every po every every movie you
watch in Polish. Um, every foreign movie
watched in Polish has all the voices. So
whether it's male voice or female voice,
um, still narrated with one single
character like monotonous narration.
It's like a horrible experience and it
still happens today. And it was like
wow. Um, we think this will change. This
will change. We think the technology and
what will happen with some of the
innovations will allow us to enjoy that
content in in the original delivery in
the original incredible uh voice and and
and let's let's let's make make it
happen and change it. Of course,
expanded since then. It's not only that
we realized the same problem exists
across most content not being accessible
in audio just in English. Um how the
dynamic interactions will will evolve.
Um, and of course how the audio will
transmit the the language barrier too.
Was there any particular paper or
capability that you saw that made you
think, okay, now is the time for this to
change? Well, attention is all you need
is definitely one which which which
which, you know, was so um so crisp um
and clear in terms of what's possible.
Yeah. But um maybe to to give like um a
different angle to the to the answer, I
think the interesting piece was was less
so than the paper. There was this
incredible open source repo. So that was
like slightly later in as we started
discovering like is it even possible and
there was a a tortoise TTS effectively
um which is a model uh an open source um
model that was kind of created at the
time. It provided incredible results of
replicating a voice and generating
speech. It wasn't very stable, but it
kind of have some glips into like, wow,
this is this is this is incredible. Um,
and that was um that was already as we
were deeper into the the the company. So
like maybe a first year in um so in
2022. Um but that was that was like
another element of like okay this is
this is this is possible. some great
ideas there and then of course we've
spent most of our time like what other
things we can innovate through start
from scratch bring the transformer
diffusion into the audio space um and um
and that that kind of heal it's just
another level of of like human quality
where you could actually
feel like it's a human human voice.
Let's yeah let's talk a bit about how
you've actually built what you've built
as far as the product goes. What aspects
of what works in text port directly over
to audio and what's completely
different, different skill set,
different techniques? I'm curious how
similar the two are and where some of
the real differences are. Yeah. The
first thing is, you know, the there's
kind of those three components that come
come into um the model, the there's the
compute, there's the data, there's the
model architecture. Um and the model
architecture is is has some ideas but is
very different. But then the data is
also quite different in both in terms of
what's what's accessible and and uh in
in how you how you need that data to be
able to train the models. And in compute
the models are smaller. So you don't
need as much compute which which allows
us to given a lot of the innovations
need to happen on the on the model side
or the data side you can still out
compete foundational models uh rather
than just just the usual not at a big
compute disadvantage. Exactly. Yeah. uh
but the data was I think the first piece
which is different where in in text you
can reliably tech take the text that
exists and it it it it will it will work
in audio
the um the data first of all there's m
much less of the high quality audio that
actually would get you the result you
need and then the second it frequently
doesn't come with transcription or with
a high accurate um text of of what was
spoken And that was that's like kind of
lacking in the in the space where you
need to spend a lot of time. And then
there's a third component, something
that will be coming across in the in the
current generation of models. Um, which
is not only what was said, so the
transcript of of of the audio, but also
how was it said. Yeah. What emotions did
you use? Who said it? What are some of
the non-verbal elements that were said?
That kind of almost not doesn't exist,
especially at the high quality. And um,
and that's where you need to spend a lot
of time. That's where we've spent a lot
of time in the early days too of being
able to create effectively a more of a
uh a speechto text model uh and like a
pipeline with with additional uh set of
manual labelers to to to do that work.
Um and that's very different from from
text where you just need to spend a lot
more cycles. Um and then the model level
you you effectively you know you have
this step of in the in in in the in the
first generation a text to speech model
of understanding the context and and
bringing that to emotion. But of course
you um you need to kind of predict the
next sound rather than the predict the
next text token. Y and um and that both
depends on the on the on the prior but
can also depend on the on the what
happens after. Um like an easy example
is like uh you know what a what a
wonderful day um let's say it's a
passage of a book then you kind of think
okay this is positive emotion I should
read it in a positive way but if you
have a what a wonderful day I said it
sarcastically then suddenly it changes
the entire meaning and you kind of need
to adjust that in the audio delivery as
well put a punch line in a different in
the different spot so that was
definitely different where that
contextual understanding was was a was a
tricky thing and then the other model
thing that's that's the very different.
You have the text to to speech element,
but then you have also the voice
element. So the kind of the other
innovation that we spend a lot of time
working on is how can you create and
represent voices uh to hire accurate uh
um way of of what was in the original
and um we we found like this decoding
and coding um way which was slightly
different to the to the space. We
weren't hard coding or predicting any
specific features. So we weren't like
trying to optimize is the voice male or
is the voice female or what's the age of
the voice. Instead we effectively uh let
the let the model decide what the
characteristics should should be. Um and
then I found a way to to to bring that
into into the speech. So now of course
when you have the texttospech model it
will take the context of the text as one
input and the second will take the voice
as a second input and based on the voice
delivery if it's more calm or dynamic
both of those will merge together and
then give the kind of the end output
which um which was um of course very
different type of of of of work than the
text models. Amazing. What sort of
people have you needed to hire to be
able to build this? I imagine it's a
different skill set than most AI
companies. The uh there's a and it kind
of changed over time but I think the the
first first difference and this is
probably less skill set difference but
more approach difference. We've started
fully remote. Uh we wanted to hire the
best researchers wherever they are. We
we we we knew we we where they are. uh
there's probably like 50 to 100 great
people in audio based at least you know
on the open source work or the papers
that they release or the companies that
they worked in um that we would admire.
So you so the top of the funnel is
pretty limited because so much fewer
people worked on on the research. So we
decided let's attract them uh um um and
and get them into the company wherever
wherever they are and that that kind of
really helped. Um the second thing was
you know given um given we want to make
it exciting for a lot of people to to to
to uh to work but also we think this is
the best way to to run a lot of the
research we try to make the the the
researchers extremely close to to
deployment to actually seeing the
results of their work. So the cycle from
being able to research something to
bringing it in front of all the people
is super short. Yeah. Uh and you get
that immediate feedback of how is it
working. Um then we have a kind of
separate than research we have research
engineers that focus less on like the
innovation of the entire kind of new
architecture of the models but taking
existing models improving them changing
them deploying them at scale. uh and
here frequently you've seen other
companies call our research engineers
researchers given that the work would be
would be um as as complex in those in
those companies but uh but that kind of
really helped us to create a new
innovation bring that innovation extend
it and deploy it and then the layer
around the research that we've created
is probably very different where we
effectively have now a group of of of
voice coaches data labelers that are
trained by voice coaches in how to
understand the audio your data, how to
label that, how to label the emotions,
and then they get re-reviewed by the
voice coaches whether it's good or bad.
Um, because most of the traditional
companies didn't really support audio
labeling in that same that same way. Uh,
but that's I think the biggest
difference is you you needed to be
excited about some part of the audio
work to really be able to create um and
and dedicate yourself to to the level we
we want. And um and we you know we're
small we're especially at the time small
company you would be willing to embrace
that independence that high ownership
that it takes that you are effectively
you know working on a specific research
theme uh yourself and um and of course
there's some some interaction some
guidance from others but a lot of the
heavy lifting is individual and and
creating that work um which which takes
a different mindset and I thing we've
been able to to now we have like a team
of of 15 research and research engineers
almost and they are incredible. What
have some of the major kind of step
function changes in the quality of the
product or the applicability of the
product been over the last few years? I
I remember kind of early I think it was
early 2023ish when you guys started to
explode or maybe late 2023 I forget. Um,
and it seemed like some of it was on the
heels of the Harry Potter Balenciaga
video that went viral where it was an 11
Labs voice that was doing it. Um, it
seems like you've had these moments in
the consumer world where something goes
viral and it traces back to you. But
beyond that, from from a product
standpoint, what have been kind of the
major inflection points that have opened
up new markets or spurred more developer
enthusiasm? You know, it's it's the what
you mentioned is is probably one of the
key things we are trying to do and and
continuously even now we see this is
like one of the key things to really get
the adoption out there which is have the
proumer uh um deployment and and
actually bringing it to to everyone out
there when we create a new technology
showing to the world that it's possible
and then kind of supplementing that of
the top down bringing it to the specific
companies we work with. And the reason
for this is kind of twofold. One is the
these groups of people are just so much
more eager and quick to adopt and and
and and create that technology. And the
second one frequently when you when you
uh when we create a lot of the the the
both the product and the research work
the set of use cases that might be
created uh we have of course some
predictions but there's just so many
more that we have wouldn't expect like
the example you gave that wouldn't have
come to our mind that this is something
that people might be be creating and
trying to do. Um and that was definitely
something where uh where where we
continuously even now when we create new
models we try to bring it to to the
entirety of the user base learn from
them and and and and and increase that
um and it kind of goes in those in those
waves where we have a new model release.
um we bring it broad. Um then then kind
of the proumer adoption is there and
then the enterprise adoption follows
with additional product additional
reliability that needs to happen and
then once again we have a new step
release in a new function and kind of
the cycle repeats. So we tried to really
embrace it um through the history. The
first one, the very first one was when
we when we had our beta model. So that
you you were right was like when we
released it publicly early 2023. Okay.
Late 2022 we're iterating in the in the
beta with subset of of users and we had
a lot of book authors in that subset and
we had this like literally a small text
box in our product where you could um
where you could input the text and and
get the speech out. It was like a tweet
length effectively and uh we had one of
those book authors copy paste his entire
book inside this this box download it
then at the time you wouldn't you it was
uh most of the platforms banned AI
content okay he managed to upload it h
they thought it's human h started
getting great reviews on that platform
and then came back to us with set of his
friends and other book authors saying
like hey we really need it this is
incredible and that kind of triggered
this first like mini virality moment
with book authors very very keen. Then
we had another similar moment around the
same period where we there that was one
of the first models that could that
could laugh. We released this blog post
that the first AI that can laugh and
people picked it up like wow this is
incredible this is really working. and
we got a lot of the the early users.
Then of course the the theme that you
mentioned which was a lot of the
creators and I think there's like a
completely new trend that started around
this time where it shifted into no um no
face channels effectively. You don't
have the the creator in the in the frame
and then you have narration of that
creator across something that's
happening. And that started going like
like wildfire in the in the first six
months of the work where of course we
were providing the narration and the
speech and the voices for a lot of those
uh a lot of those use cases and and and
that was that was great to see. Then
late 2023 early 2024
we released our work in mult other
languages. That's one of the first
moments where you could um you could
really create the narration um across
other most famous European languages and
our dubbing product. So that's kind of
back to the original vision. We created
finally a way for you to have the audio
and bring it to another language while
still sounding the same. And um and that
uh that kind of triggered this other
small virality moment of people people
uh creating the videos. And there was
like this, you know, the the expected
ones which is just the traditional
content but also unexpected ones where
we had someone trying to dub singing
videos. Okay. Which the model we didn't
know will work on and it kind of didn't
work but it gave you like a drunken
singing
result. So then it went few times viral
too for for for that result. Uh which
was which was fun to see. Um and then in
2025 at the early time now um and we are
seeing like kind of it's recurrently now
everybody is creating an agent. Mhm. Uh
we started adding the voice to a lot of
those agents and it became um both very
easy to do uh for a lot of people to
like have the entire orchestration
speech to text the LM responses text to
speech um to make it seamless and we had
now few use cases which started getting
a lot of traction a lot of adoption.
Most recently, we worked with Epic Games
to recreate The Voice of Darth Vader,
which players um uh there's just so many
so many people using and trying to get
uh the conversation with Darth Vader in
Fortnite, which which is like just just
just immense uh immense scale. And of
course, you know, most of the users are
are trying to have a a a great
conversation, use him as a companion in
in the game. Some people are trying to
like stretch whether whether he will say
something that he shouldn't be able to
say. So you see all those attempts as
well. Uh but luckily the product is
holding up and it's actually keeping it
relatively uh relatively both
performative and safe to actually keep
him on on the on the rails. Um I think
about some of the dubbing use cases. One
of the viral ones was when we worked
with Lex Freedman and and he interviewed
Prime Minister Narendra Modi uh and we
turned the conversation which happened
between English through Lex and Narodi
spoke Hindi and we turned the
conversation into English so you could
actually listen to both of them speaking
together. Um and then similarly we
turned both of them to Hindi. So you
heard Lex speaking Hindi and that went
also extremely viral in in India where
people were both watching both of those
versions and in US people were watching
the English version. So that was like a
a nice way of tying it back to the to
the beginning. Um, but I think they
especially as you think about the
future, the agents and like just seeing
them pop up in in new ways uh is is is
going to be so frequent like both early
developers building building everything
from Stripe integration and being able
to process refunds through to to the
companion um use cases all the way
through to the true enterprise is is is
kind of having probably a few viral
moments ahead. Yeah. Say more about what
you're seeing in voice agents right now.
seems like that's quickly become a
pretty popular interaction pattern.
What's working? What's not working? You
know, where are your customers really
having success? Where are some of your
customers kind of getting stuck? And and
before I answer maybe a question back to
you, do you see do you see uh a lot more
companies building agents across across
the companies that are coming through
Sika? We we yeah we absolutely do. And I
think most people have this long-term
vision that it's sort of a Hunen style
avatar powered by an 11 Labs voice where
it's this humanlike agent that you're
interacting with. And I think most
people start with simpler modalities and
kind of work their way up. So we see a
lot of textbased agents sort of
proliferating throughout the enterprise
stack. And I I imagine there are lots of
consumer applications for that as well,
but we tend to see a lot of the
enterprise stuff. It's it's it's similar
definitely what we are seeing both on
the new startups being created where
it's like everybody is building an agent
um and then enterprise side too is like
can be so helpful for the process
internally and like taking a step back
what what we think and and believe from
kind of the start is voice will
fundamentally be the interface for
interacting with technology. It would be
one of the most, you know, it's it's
probably the modality we've known from
when the human um genre was was born as
the kind of first way that humans
interacted. Um and it carries just so
much more than than text does like it
carries the emotions, the inonation, the
imperfections. We can understand each
other. We can um we can based on on the
emotional cues respond in a very
different ways. Um so I kind of that's
where our our start happened where where
we think the voice will be that that
interface and build not just the
texttospech element but seeing our
clients try to use the text to speech
and do the whole conversational
application can we provide them a
solution that helps them abstract this
away. Yeah. And um you know we've seen
we've seen it from from like the
traditional domains and to speak for for
a few it's like in healthcare space yeah
we've seen people try to automate some
of the work they cannot do with nurses
as an example a company like hypocratic
will uh automate the calls that nurses
need to take to the patients to remind
them about taking medicine. Ask how they
are feeling. Capture that information
back so then the doctors can actually
process that in a much more efficient
way. and um and voice became critical
where a lot of those people cannot be
reached otherwise and the voice call is
just the easiest thing to do. Then uh
very traditional probably the the the
quickest moving one is customer support.
So many companies uh both from the call
center and the traditional customer
support trying to build the voice
internally in the companies whether it's
companies like Deutsche Telecom all the
way through um to um to to the to the
new companies um everybody is trying to
find a way to to deliver better
experience and and now voice voice is
possible um and then um what is probably
the one of the most exciting for me is
education where like could you be
learning through having that voice
delivery in a new way. Um, I'm a I used
to at least be a a chess player or like
a amateur chess player and um and we
work with chess.com where you can uh uh
I don't know if you're a user of
chess.com. I am but I'm a very bad chess
player. Okay. Okay. But so maybe so
that's a great cue. One one of the
things is we are trying to build
effectively a a narration which which
guides you through the game um so you
can learn how to play better. M and
there's a version of that where
hopefully you will be able to work with
some of the iconic chess players where
you can like have the delivery from
Magnus Carlson or Gary Kaspar or Hikaro
Nakamura to guide you through the game
and get even better while you play it.
Um which which would be phenomenal and I
think this will be one of the common
things we'll see where like everybody
will have their personal tutor for the
subject that they want with voice that
they relate to and they and they can get
closer. Um, and that's on the kind of on
the enterprise side, but then on the
consumer side too, we we've seen kind of
completely new ways of augmenting the
way you can you can deliver the content.
Uh, like the the work with the Time
magazine where you can read the article,
you can listen to the article, but you
can also speak to the article. So you
worked effectively during the person of
the year release where you could ask the
questions about how they became person
of the year. Tell me more about other
people of the of the year. Uh and and
kind of dive into that a little bit a
little bit deeper. And then we as a
company everyone are trying to build an
agent that people can can interact and
and see the art of possible. Most
recently, we um we've created an agent
for my favorite physicist uh or one of
the two
with with working with his family,
Richard Fayman, where you can actually
he's my favorite too. Okay, great.
Great. He's I mean he he's such an
amazing way to like both deliver the
knowledge in educational like simple way
and humoristic way and and just like the
way he speaks is also amazing and the
way he writes is amazing. So uh so that
was that was that was amazing and I
think this will like alter where maybe
in the future you will have like you
know his his cultic lectures or um one
of his book uh where you can you can
listen to to it in his voice and then
dive into like some of his background
and and understand that bit better like
surely you're joking Mr. Fayman and like
yes dive into this I would love I would
love to I would love to hear a reading
of that book in his voice. Yeah that'd
be amazing. Yeah, 100%. For some of the
enterprise applications or maybe the
consumer applications as well, it it
seems like there are a lot of situations
where the interface is not the interface
might be the enabler, but it's not the
bottleneck. The bottleneck is sort of
the underlying business logic or the
underlying context that's required to
actually have the right sort of
conversation with your customer or
whoever the the user is. Um, how often
do you run into that? What's what's your
sense for where those bottlenecks are
getting removed, you know, and where
they might still be a little bit sticky
at the moment? The benefit of us working
so closely with a lot of companies where
we where we bring our engineers to work
directly with them frequently results in
us kind of diving into seeing some of
the common bottlenecks. And when we've
started, you know, the you think about
the conversational AI stack, you have
the the kind of that the speechtoext
element of understanding what you say.
you have the LM piece of of generating
the response and then text to speech to
narrate it back. Um, and then you have
the entire turnt taking model to to to
deliver that um that experience in a
good way. But really that's just the the
enabler. But then like you said, you to
be able to deliver the right response,
you need both the knowledge base um the
business uh base or or or the business
information about how you want to
actually generate that response and
what's relevant in a specific context.
And then you need the functions and
integrations to trigger the right set of
actions. And in our case, we've kind of
we've we've built that that stack around
the product. So companies we work with
can bring that knowledge base relatively
easily. Um have access to rag if they
want to enable this uh are able to that
on the fly if they if they need to and
then of course build the functions
around it. And the set of very common
common themes is definitely coming
across where um the the the deeper the
enterprise you go the the the more
integrations will start becoming more
important whether it's you know simple
things like Twilio or SIP trunking to
make the phone call um or whether it's
connecting to the CRM system of choice
that they have or working with the past
providers or the current providers where
those companies are deployed like
Genesis. That's that's definitely a
common common theme where um where
that's probably taking the most time of
like how do you have the entire suite of
integrations that works reliably and and
the business can easily connect to their
to their logic. In our case, of course,
this is increasing and like kind of
every next company we work with already
benefits from a lot of the integrations
that were built. Um so that's probably
the the most frequent one, the
integrations itself. knowledge base
isn't as big of an issue, but that
depends on the company. Like if we if we
work with a company that, you know, it's
it's it's it's um we've seen kind of it
all from like how well organized the
knowledge is inside of the company. If
it's a company that has been spending a
lot of effort on on digitizing already
and creating like some version of source
of truth where that information lies and
how relatively easy to on board them and
then as we go to u more complex one and
I don't know if I can mention anyone uh
but uh the the it can it can get pretty
gnarly and then we work with them on
like okay that's what we need to do as
the first as the first step some of the
protocols that are being developed to
like standardize that standardize that
like MCP is is definitely is definitely
helpful something that we we also are
bringing into the fold um as as you know
you you don't want to you don't want to
spend the time on all the integrations
if if if the services can provide that
as a yes easy stand away well and and
you mentioned anthropic one of the
things that you plug into is the
foundation models themselves and I I
imagine there's a bit of a co-opetition
dynamic where sometimes you're competing
with their voice functionality sometimes
you're you're working with them to
provide a solution for a customer How
how do you manage that? Like how does
that I imagine there are a bunch of
founders listening who are in similar
positions where they work with
foundation models but they kind of
compete with foundation model. I'm just
cur how do you manage that? I think the
main thing that we've realized is is
most of them are complimentary to like
work like conversational AI. Yeah. And
we're trying to stay agnostic from using
one provider. But I think the main thing
is is true and um and happened over the
especially last year now now that I
think about it h is that we are not
trying to rely only on one we are trying
to have many of them together in the
fold and that kind of goes to both like
one what if they develop into being a
closer competition where uh you know
maybe they won't pro be able to provide
the service to us or the service becomes
too blurry or we you know we of course
are not using any of the data back to
them
could that be a concern in the future?
So, kind of that piece, but also the
second piece um is
the when you develop like a product like
conversational AI which allows you to
deploy your voice AI agent, all our
customers will have a different
preference for using the LM. But
frequently or even more frequently, you
want kind of this um this cascading
mechanism that what if one LM isn't
working at a given time go through and
and and and have that kind of the second
second layer of support or third layer
to perform pretty well and we've seen
this work extremely successfully. So to
a large extent treat them as partners
happy to be partners with many of them
and um and hopefully that continues and
if we if we are competing um there'll be
a good competition too. Let me ask you
on the product. What do your customers
care the most about? One sort of meme
over the last year or so has been people
who keep touting benchmarks are kind of
missing the point. You know, there are a
lot of things beyond the benchmarks that
customers really care about. What is it
your customers really care about? The um
the and very true on the benchmark side,
especially in audio, but if our
customers care about three things,
quality, both like how expressive it is
in in both English and other languages.
And that's probably the top one. Like if
you don't have quality everything else
doesn't doesn't matter. Of course the
thresholds of quality will depend on the
use case. It's a different threshold for
narration for delivery in the in the
agentic space and dubbing. Second one is
latency. You won't be able to deliver a
conversational agent if the latency
isn't good enough. But that's where the
interesting combination will happen
between like what's the quality versus
latency uh benchmark that um that you
that you have. And then the third one
which which is especially useful at that
scale is reliability like can I deploy
at scale like the Epic Games example
where millions of player are interacting
with and the system holds up it's still
performative still works extremely well
and time and time again we've seen that
the the kind of being able to scale and
and reliably deliver that infrastructure
is is critical. Can I ask you how how
far do you think we are from
highly or fully reliable
human or superhuman quality
effectively zero latency
voice interaction? And and maybe the
related question is
how does the nature of the engineering
challenges you face change as we get
closer and inevitably surpass that sort
of threshold? the ideal like we would we
uh we would love to prove that it's
possible this year that you can like
cross the touring test of speaking with
an agent and you just would say like
this is like speaking another human. I
think it's a very ambitious goal but I
think it's possible. Yeah, I think it's
possible. Um if if if if not this year
then hopefully early in 2026 but uh but
I think I think we can do it. I think we
can do it. you know, you will have
you'll probably have different groups of
of of of users too where some people
will uh will kind of be very attuned and
and you will be much harder to pass the
Turing test for them. But for majority
of people, I hope we are able to get it
to to to that level this year. I think
the biggest question and and that's kind
of where the timeline is a little bit
more dependent is will it be the model
that that we have today which is a
cascading model where you have the
speechto text lamb text to speech so
like kind of three separate pieces that
can be performative. Yeah. Yeah. Or do
you have like the omni um model where
you train them together truly duplex
style where the delivery is is is much
better and that's that's that's
effectively what we are uh uh kind of
trying to assess. Um we are doing both.
We are now then the one in production is
the is the cascading model. Soon the one
will deploy will be a truly duplex
model. Um and I think the main thing
that you will see is the kind of the
reliability versus expressivity
trade-off. I think latency we can get
pretty good on both sides. Um but but
similarly there might be some trade-off
of latency where where the true duplex
model will always be quicker. Uh will be
a little bit more expressive but less
reliable and the cascaded model is
definitely more reliable can be
extremely expressive but maybe not as as
as
contextually responsive. uh and then
latency will be a little bit harder. So
that will be a huge engineering
challenge and I think no no company has
been able to do it well like fuse the
the the modality of LMS with audio.
Well, yeah. So I hope we'll be the first
one. Uh which is the the internal
internal big goal but we you know we've
seen we've seen probably the OpenAI work
the meta work that that are dabbling in
in there. Um I don't think it passed the
Turing test yet. Um so hopefully
hopefully we'll be the first. Awesome.
And then you mentioned earlier that you
think of and you have thought of voice
as sort of a new default interaction
mode for a lot of technology. Can you
paint that picture a little bit more?
You know, let's say we're five or 10
years down the road. How do you imagine
just the way people live with
technology, the way people interact with
technology changes as a result of your
model getting so good? I think the first
like you know there there will be this
beautiful uh part where kind of
technology will will go into the
background. So you can really focus on
on on on learning on human interaction
and then you will have it like
accessible through through voice versus
through through the screen. Um I think
the first piece will be the education. I
think the there will be like an entire
change where all of us will have the the
the kind of the guiding voice whether we
are learning mathematics and are going
through the notes or whether we are um
uh trying to learn a new language and
interact with with a native speaker to
guide you through how to pronounce
things.
Um and I think this will be the first
theme where in the next five 10 years it
will be the the default that you will
have um the the agents voice agents to
to help you through that learning.
Second thing which um which will be
interesting how this like affects the
whole cultural exchange around the
world. I think you will be able to to go
to another country and interact with
another person while still carrying your
own voice, your own emotion, inonation
and the person can understand you. M um
it will be an interesting question how
that techn is delivered. Is it the
headphone? Is it neural link? Is it
another technology but um but it will
happen and I think we we hopefully can
make it happen. If you uh you know if
you if you read hitchhiker's guide to
galaxy there's this concept of
bubblefish. I think bubblefish will be
will be there and and and and and the
technology um will make it possible. So
that will be a second huge huge theme.
Um and I think the generally like you
know we we've spoke about this personal
tutor example but I think there will be
other set of assistants and agents that
all of us have that that just can can be
sent to to perform tasks on our behalf
and to perform a lot of those tasks you
will need you will need voice whether
it's you know booking a booking a
restaurant or whether it's um jumping
into a specific specific meeting to take
notes and summarize that in the style
that you need you want to be able to
perform the action. ction or whether
it's it's it's it's calling a customer
support and the customer support agent
responding. So that'll be an interesting
theme of like agent to agent
interaction. Yeah. Uh and like how does
authenticated how do you know it's real
or not. But of course voice will will
play a a big role in in in all all three
like the the education I think um and
generally how we learn things will will
be so dependent on that. the um the kind
of the universal translator um piece
will will have voice at the at the
forefront and then the the general
services around the the life will will
be will be so crucially voice driven.
Very cool. Um and you mentioned
authentication. I was going to ask you
about that. So one one of the fears that
always comes up is impersonation. Can
you talk about how you've handled that
to date and maybe how it's evolved to
date and where you see it headed from
here? Yeah, the the way we started and
that was like a a big piece for us from
the start is for all the content
generated 11 labs you can trace it back
to the specific account that generated
it. Um so we have a pretty robust
mechanism of of tying the audio output
to to to the account and it can take
action. So that provenence is is
extremely important and I think will be
increasingly important in the future
where you want to be able to understand
what's the AI content or or not AI
content or maybe it will shift even step
deeper where you will rather than
authenticating AI you'll also
authenticate humans so you'll have
ondevice authentication that okay this
is Matty calling another person the
second thing is is is the wider set of
like the moderation of is it a call
trying to do fraud and scam or is this a
um a voice that that might be not
authenticated which we do as a company
and and that kind of evolved over time
to what extent we do it and how we do
it. So moderating on the voice on the
text level and then the third thing kind
of stretching the what we've started
ourselves on like the the provenence
component is like how can we train
models and work with other companies to
not only train it for 11 labs but also
open source technology which is of
course prevalent in that space other
commercial models and um and it's it's
it's you know it's possible of course as
open source develops it always will be a
cat and mouse game whether you can
actually catch it but we worked a lot
with with other companies like or or
academia like University of Berkeley to
actually deliver those models and and
and um and be able to detect it. Um so
and and that's kind of the guiding
especially now that the more we take the
kind of the leading position in
deploying new technology like the
conversational AI soon a new model we
try to um we try to spend even more time
on the trying to understand like what
are the safety mechanism that we can
that we can bring in to make it
as useful for good actors and minimize
the bad actors. So yeah that's the the
usual trade-off there. Um can we talk
about Europe for a minute? Let's do it.
Okay. Guess you're you're a remote
company, but you're based in London.
What have been the advantages of being
based in Europe? What have been some of
the disadvantages of being based in
Europe? It's a great question. The um I
think the advantage for us was uh was
the talent being able to attract some of
the best talent and you know frequently
people say that the um there's like uh
uh lack of drive in the people in in
Europe. We haven't felt that at all. We
feel like these people are so
passionate. We have like I think such an
incredible team. We try to run it with
small teams, but everybody is um is it's
just like pushing all the time. So
excited about what we can do and some of
the most hardworking people I had a
pleasure to work with and it's such a
high caliber of people too. So talent
was a extremely positive surprise for
for us of like how how how the team kind
of got constructed and especially now as
we continue hiring people whether it's
uh people across broader Europe, Central
Eastern Europe like just the caliber is
is is super high. Um second thing which
which um which I think is is true where
you know there's this uh wider
um feeling where Europe is behind um and
and likely it's in many ways it's true
like AI innovation is being led in US um
countries in Asia are closely following
Europe is behind um but the energy for
the people is to to really change that
and I think it's shifted from over last
years where it was like a little little
bit more cautious over when we started
the company now like we feel the the
keenness and and we want to be at the
forefront of that and I think getting
that energy from people and that drive
was was a lot easier. So that's probably
an advantage where we can just just move
quicker. the companies are actually keen
to adopt increasingly uh which which
which is helping and as as a company in
Europe um really as a global company but
with with a lot of people in Europe it
helps us uh deploy with those companies
too and maybe there's another flavor and
last flavor of that which is Europe
specific but also global specific so
when we started company we didn't really
think about any specific region like we
are you know a a Polish company or
British company or or US company Um but
I think was one thing was true where we
where we wanted it to be a global
solution. Yeah. And not only from
deployment perspective but also from the
core of of what we are trying to achieve
where it's like how do we bring audio
and make it accessible in all those
different languages. So it kind of was
the through through the spine of the
company from the start from the core of
the company and um and that definitely
helped us where now when we have a lot
of people in a lot of different regions
they speak the language they can work
with the clients and that I think likely
helped that we were at Europe at the
time because we were able to to bring a
lot of people and optimize for that
local experience.
On the other side, what was definitely
harder is you know in US there's this
incredible community of you have people
with the drive but you also have the
people that have been through this
journey a few times. Yeah. And you can
learn from those people so much easier
and there's just so many of people that
created companies, exited companies, led
a function at a different scale than
than most of the companies in Europe. Um
so it's kind of almost granted that you
can learn from those people just by
being around them and being able to ask
the questions. That's much was much
harder I think especially in the early
days to just be able to ask those like
not even ask the questions but know what
questions to ask. Yeah. Uh of course we
we've been lucky to to partner with with
with incredible investors through the
years to help us through through through
those questions. Uh but um but that was
that was harder I think in in in Europe.
Um and then the second is is probably
the flip side of of you know while I'm
positive there is the enthusiasm now in
Europe uh I think it was lacking over
last years. I think US was like
excitingly taking the approach of of of
leading over especially um over over
last year and and creating the ecosystem
to like let it flourish. I think Europe
is still figuring it out and that's
that's you know whether it's the
regulatory things that like you AI act
that I think will
will not not contribute to us
accelerating um which which people are
trying to figure out there's the
enthusiasm but I think it's is slowing
it out. Yeah. But the first one is
definitely the bigger disadvantage.
Yeah. Should we do a quick fire round?
Let's do it. Okay. What is your favorite
AI application that you personally use?
And it can't be 11 labs or 11 reader.
It it it really changes over time. Uh
but perplexity is is was I think and is
one of my one of my favorites. Really?
What is it? What is uh and for you? What
does perplexity give you that chat GBT
or Google doesn't give you? Yeah, the
CHBD is also amazing. Uh Chipd is also
amazing. I think for a long time it was
um being able to go deeper and
understand the sources. Um that was I
hesitated a little bit of the wasis
where where I think CHGPT now has a lot
more of that of that of that component.
So I tend to use both in in many of
those cases. Um you know for a long time
a nonAI application but I think they are
trying to build AI application like my
favorite app would be Google maps. I
like I I I think it's incredible. I I'm
it's it's it's it's such a powerful
application. Um but let me pull my
screen. What other applications do I
have? Well, while you're doing that, I I
will I will go to Google Maps and just
browse. Yeah, I'll just go to Google
Maps and explore some location that I've
never been to before. It's 100%. I mean,
it's it's it's uh it's great as a search
function of the area, too. It's uh it's
great. um as a niche application. Um I
like FYI this is a will I am uh startup.
Oh okay. Which is like a combination of
well it started as a communication app
but now it's more of the radio app.
Okay. Um like when I curiosity is there
um cloud is great too. I like I use
cloud for very different things than
than than GPT like any deeper coding
elements prototyping I was use cloud uh
cloud. Um, and I and I love it.
Actually, no. I do have a real like more
real recent answer which is lovable.
Yeah. Lovable was uh Do you use it at
all for 11 Labs or do you just use it
personally to ah that's true. I think
more like you know the my life is 11
laps like I it's it's a so the truth is
all those applications. Yes. I it's like
all of these I used partly for big time
for 11 laps too. Um but but yeah, I
lovable I use for for 11 Labs. Um but
like exploring new things too every so
often I will use I use Lovable which
ultimately is tied to to 11 Labs but um
but it's great for prototyping. Very
cool. And like um pulling up a quick
demo for a client. Uh it's it's it's
it's great. Very cool. So 11 related I
guess. All right. Who what was your
favorite one? My favorite one you know
it's funny. So yesterday we had a team
meeting and everybody everybody checked
with chat GPT to see how many queries
they sub they they'd submitted in the
last 30 days and I'd done like 300 in
the last 30 days. I was like oh yeah
that's pretty good pretty good user and
Andrew similarly had done about 300 in
the last 30 days. Um some of the younger
folks on our team it was a thousand plus
and so not not only I'm a big DAU of of
chat GPT and I thought I was a power
user but apparently not compared to what
some other people are doing. Um, I know
it's a very generic answer, but it it's
unbelievable how much you can do in one
app at this point. Do you use Cloud as
well? Uh, I use Cloud a little bit, but
not nearly as much. The The other app
that I use every single day, which I'm
very contrarian on, is Quip, which is
which was Brett Taylor's company from
years ago that got sold to Salesforce.
And I'm pretty sure that I'm the only
DAU at this point, but I'm just hoping
Salesforce doesn't shut it down because
my whole life is in Quip. I use We use a
Palunteer. I like Quip. Cool is good.
It's really good. Yeah. No, they nailed
the basics. Like they nailed the basics.
Didn't get bogged down in bells and
whistles. Just nailed the basics. Great
experience. Um all right. Who is uh who
in the world of AI do you admire most?
These are like hard rap not not rapid
fire questions, but I think um I really
like Deis. Tell me more.
I it's it's you know both um his the um
I think he is always straight to the
point he he he can speak very deeply
about the research but he also has
created through the years so many
incredible work himself you know of
course leading a lot of the research
work but I kind of like that combination
that he he has been doing the research
and and and and now now leading it um
and whether this was the like alpha fold
which which I think is like truly a new
new it's like everybody I think agrees
here but like a true frontier for for
the world and and like kind of taking
what you know while most people focus on
on part of the AI work he is kind of
trying to bring it to to to um to
biology I mean Darday is of course
trying to do that too so it's it's going
to be incredible like what this evolves
to uh but then that he was like you know
creating games in the early days was
incredible chess player has been like
trying to find a way for AI to win
across all those games. It's um it's
like the versality of how he he both can
lead the deployment of research can is
probably one of the best researchers
himself. Yeah. Stays extremely humble um
and just like honest intellectually
honest. I feel like you know we were
speaking with with Dis he or Sarah Damis
you would uh you would get an honest
answer and um yeah that's it. He's he's
amazing. Very cool. All right, last one.
Hot take on the future of AI. Some
belief that you feel
medium too strongly about that you feel
is underhyped or maybe contrarian.
I feel like it's a an answer that you
would expect maybe to some extent, but I
do think the whole cross-lingual aspect
is still like totally underhyped. like
if you will be able to go any place and
speak that language and people can like
truly speak with yourself um and whether
this will be initially like the delivery
of content and then future delivery of
communication I think this will like
change the world of how we see it like I
think one of the biggest barriers is in
those conversations that you cannot
really understand the other person of
course it has a textual comp component
to it like be able to translate it well
but then also the voice delivery and uh
I feel like this is completely
underhyped it's like no no Nobody. Do
you think the device that enables that
exists yet?
No, I don't think so. It won't be the
phone, won't be glasses, might be some
other form factor. I think it will it
will have many forms. I think people
will have, you know, glasses. I think
headphones will be one of the first
which will be the easiest. Yeah. Um I
mean glasses for sure will be there too.
Um but I don't think everybody will will
will wear the glasses.
And then, you know, like is there some
version of of of a of a non-invasive
neural link that that people can can
have while they travel? Um, that'll be
an interesting like attachment to the
body that that actually works. Um, do
you think it's do you think it's
underhyped or do you think it's hyped
enough this use case? Um, I would I
would probably bundle that into the
overall idea of sort of ambient
computing where you are able to focus on
human beings. technology fades into the
background. It's passively absorbing
what's happening around you, using that
context to help make you smarter, help
you do things, you know, help translate,
whatever the case may be. Yeah, I think
that that absolutely fits into my mental
model of where the world is headed. But
I do wonder what what will the form
factor be that enables that. I think
it's pretty what are the enabling
technologies that allow for the business
logic and that sort of thing to work
starting to come into focus. what's the
form factor is still to be determined,
but I I absolutely agree with that.
Yeah, maybe that's maybe that's the
reason it's not um hyped enough that you
don't Yeah, people can't picture it.
Yeah. Yeah. Awesome, Mati. Thanks so
much, Pat. Thank you so much for having
me. It was great conversation. It's been
a pleasure.
[Music]